ch-03.md

loc 170. don't see autoprefixer, postcss, or tailwindcss on prefixes. Just added `npm i _`

don't see under app `favicon.ico, globasl.css` 
see extra `counter.tsx, conter.test.tsx, layout.tsx, page.test.txs, page.tsx`

following instructions for HomePage, going to try this TDD.

select wallaby config; all green.

failing test
```
it("renders homepage", () => {
  render(<Page />);
  expect(screen.getByRole("heading")).toHaveTextContent("Home Page");
});
```

## loc 222

 "add dasiyUI to your tailwind.config.js files:
but these files do not exist. Why? Probably I created project with `with-jest` rather than stock.

this is not driven tdd.
try just typing it in ``module3.exports = {...` 
looks like things elided...
grab a fresh one?

I copy a much larger tailind froma stock `npx create-next-app@latest`..

and add `plugins: [require("daisyui")]`

none of this was test driven.


oops.. I notice that was an
`npm i -D daisyui@latest`
let's try to fix it..by moving to `devDependencies`..
and another `npm run dev`
seems ok..

later.. on instructions for setup tailwindcss 
[taildinwd](https://www.perplexity.ai/search/how-to-install-w241R03eQGWryS_uDHPQ5A)

I read
```
npm install -D tailwindcss
npx tailwindcss init


```

TODO maybe try that?
(there are several more instructions)
(I am by no means certain tailwind is connected properly)
(solution might be to try `stock` just made)

meanwhile the button does not look like that depicted in the tutoral (purple)
(I thought it did earlier)

I note this failure is not showing as a failing test.
Options. A) apply [tailwind instructions](https://www.perplexity.ai/search/how-to-install-w241R03eQGWryS_uDHPQ5A) above B) switch over to `stock` and add in jest.
Let's try (A) for educational..

I note the created `tailwindcss.js` is significantly simpler than the one copied from `stock` ... and wonder..

I note the instruction 5 `create a CSS file src/input.css' differs. 
other was in another dir the other was in `app/globals.css`

I wonder about instruction 6 configure content
`  content: ["./src/**/*.{html,js}"],`
it does noth ave typescript, it sues src. what was stock?


OK I'm concluding adding jest to the basic with tailwind is easier than adding tailwind to the `with-jest` 



but first I ammend content in `taildinw.config.js`...
to include typescript
  `content: ["./src/**/*.{html,js,ts,jsx,tsx}"],`

the `stock` on has `src/pages, src/components, src/app` as well as themse..

### restart add jest to tailwind
yes, back to jest and typescript, for these two are easier to add to tailwind from stock, than adding tailwind to jest with typescript.


add jest with typescript to nextJS from [instructions](https://www.perplexity.ai/search/how-to-add-4vND726QQlS7Q6JeTCVghQ)

`npm install -D jest @types/jest ts-jest @testing-library/react @testing-library/jest-dom`

then tied [footnoted instruction](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/testing/jest)

I run `npm test` and get an error regarding `jest.config.ts` 

I do `npm install ts-node` on error message

I notice incomplete glob patterns in `jest.config.ts` and expect to fix later

I get error `Test environment jest-environment-jsdom cannot be found.` 
and .. 
I repaset the `jest.config.ts` from [instructions](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/testing/jest) and repaste the `jest.config.ts` from there

I `npm test` and no errors (also, no tests, as expected, maybe)

7:09pm resume by writing that first test, maybe.

```
mkdir spec
ƛ touch spec/page.spec.tsx
ƛ npm test
```

ok, good message, "your test suite must contain at least one test"


----
### final test
```


import { render, screen } from "@testing-library/react";
import Home from "../src/app/page"


describe("home page", () => {
    it("renders the heading", () => {
        render(<Home />);

        expect(screen.getByRole("heading").textContent).toContain("Home Page");
        
    })
})
```

----
## loc 203 ch 3 tdd plan

Read far ahead, am thinking of not doing TDD where I don't know how, but working through tutorial. Why? In some cases (components) I know how to do TDD. In other cases (styling), I do not, and even the TDD instructor veers from the path for small end-to-end testing. He's using detroy school TDD -- the one I'm familiar with myself. I have no london school instructor for this context.

So if I had a TDD tutorial on nextJS I'd be using it. I do not. Providing both the missing TDD and learning NextJS is a double order. So to learn this, type it in, might be in position to circle back and redo later -- where "later" could be end of page, chapter, or book.

Other author says "TDD a good way to learn a framework". He's not wrong. So why not that? I'll assess it on  case by case basis. I don't know enough TDD here to do end-to-end, or London style (I think the angular book covered double-loop tdd; even my React TDD instructor does not do double loop tdd). (I'll continue with these chapters of raw notes)

## loc 203 ch 3 daisy

"install Daisy UI and add it to our project"... TDD this? Leter he'll add a button, and that I can TDD. So let's do what I know. Oh, I can at least write the TDD as a skip. Yea. Then I build up a backlog.

basic button was tdd; it's not daisy; that part manual, with an it.todo("daisy button")
```expect(screen.getByRole("button").textContent).toContain("Button");```

to write the daisy test need helpers, see https://tinyurl.com/mtrt5c7d

```
import '@testing-library/jest-dom/extend-expect';
npm install --save-dev @testing-library/jest-dom

```
but install did not work..I wonder if because I'm using typescript..
tried
```npm install --save-dev ts-jest @types/jest``

no joy (pretty sure I did that earlier)
so to see if this is typescript, I could go javascript..
no joy. can't import ```import '@testing-library/jest-dom/extend-expect';```
got working old school
```expect(button.getAttribute("class")).toContain("btn btn-primary");```

